IN a village of La Mancha, the name of which I purposely
omit, there lived not long ago, one of those gentlemen, who
usually keep a lance upon a rack, an old target, a lean horse,
and a greyhound for coursing. A dish of boiled meat, con
sisting of somewhat more beef than mutton, the fragments
served up cold on most nights, an omelet1 on Saturdays, lentils
on Fridays, and a small pigeon by way of addition on Sundays,
consumed three-fourths of his income. The rest was laid out
in a surtout of fine black cloth, a pair of velvet breeches for
holidays, with slippers of the same; and on week-days he prided
himself in the very best of his own homespun cloth. His fam
ily consisted of a housekeeper somewhat above forty, a niece
not quite twenty, and a lad for the field and the market, who
both saddled the horse and handled the pruning hook. The
age of our gentleman bordered upon fifty years. He was of a
robust constitution, spare-bodied, of a meagre visage; a very
early riser, and a keen sportsman. It is said his surname was
Quixada, or Quesada (for in this there is some difference among
the authors who have written upon this subject), though by
probable conjectures it may be gathered that he was called
Quixana. But this is of little importance to our story; let it
suffice that in relating we do not swerve a jot from the truth.
You must know then, that this gentleman aforesaid, at times
when he was idle, which was most part of the year, gave him
self up to the reading of books of chivalry, with so much attach
ment and relish, that he almost forgot all the sports of the
field, and even the management of his domestic affairs; and his
curiosity and extravagant fondness herein arrived to that pitch,
that he sold many acres of arable land to purchase books of
knight-errantry, and carried home all he could lay hands on
of that kind. But, among them all, none pleased him so much
as those composed by the famous Feliciano de Silva: for the
glaringness of his prose, and the intricacy of his style, seemed
to him so many pearls; and especially when he came to peruse
those love-speeches and challenges, wherein in several places he
found written: 'The reason of the unreasonable treatment of
my reason enfeebles my reason in such wise, that with reason I
complain of your beauty':1 and also when he read—'The high
heavens that with your divinity divinely fortify you with the
stars, making you meritorious of the merit merited by your
greatness'.2 With this kind of language the poor gentleman lost
his wits, and distracted himself to comprehend and unravel their
meaning; which was more than Aristotle himself could do,
were he to rise again from the dead for that purpose alone.
He had some doubt as to the dreadful wounds which Don
Belianis gave and received; for he imagined, that notwithstanding 
the most expert surgeons had cured him, his face and whole
body must still be full of seams and scars. Nevertheless he.
commended in his author the concluding his book with a promise
of that unfinishable adventure: and he often had it in his
thoughts to take pen in hand, and finish it himself, precisely as
it is there promised: which he had certainly performed, and
successfully too, if other greater and continual cogitations had
not diverted him.
He had frequent disputes with the priest of his village (who
was a learned person, and had taken his degrees in Siguenza1)
which of the two was the better knight, Palmerin of England,
or Amadis de Gaul. But Master Nicholas, barber-surgeon of
the same town, affirmed, that none ever came up to the Knight
of the Sun, and that if any one could be compared to him, it
was Don Galaor, brother of Amadis de Gaul ; for he was of a
disposition fit for everything, no finical gentleman, nor such
a whimperer as his brother; and as to courage, he was by no
means inferior to him. In short, he so bewildered himself in
this kind of study, that he passed the nights in reading from
sunset to sunrise, and the days from sunrise to sunset: and
thus, through little sleep and much reading, his brain was dried
up in such a manner, that he came at last to lose his wits. His
imagination was full of all that he read in his books, to wit,
enchantments, battles, single combats, challenges, wounds, court
ships, amours, tempests, and impossible absurdities. And so
firmly was he persuaded that the whole system of chimeras he
read of was true, that he thought no history in the world was
more to be depended upon. The Cid Ruy Diaz, he was wont
to say, was a very good knight, but not comparable to the
Knight of the Burning Sword, who with a single back-stroke
cleft asunder two fierce and monstrous giants. He was better
pleased with Bernardo del Carpio for putting Orlando the
Enchanted to death in Roncesvalles, by means of the same
stratagem which Hercules used, when he suffocated Anteus,
son of the Earth, by squeezing him between his arms.1 He spoke
mighty well of the giant Morgante; for, though he was of that
monstrous brood who are always proud and insolent, he alone
was affable and well-bred : but, above all, he was charmed with
Reynaldos de Montalvan, especially when he saw him sallying
out of his castle and plundering all he met; and when abroad he
seized that image of Mahomet, which was all of massive gold,
as his history records. He would have given his housekeeper,
and niece to boot, for a fair opportunity of handsomely kicking
the traitor Galalon-.
In fine, having quite lost his wits, he fell into one of the
strangest conceits that ever entered the head of any madman;
which was, that he thought it expedient and necessary, as
well for the advancement of his own reputation, as for the
public good, that he should commence knight-errant, and wander
through the world, with his horse and arms, in quest of adven
tures, and to put in practice whatever he had read to have been
practised by knights-errant; redressing all kind of grievances, and
exposing himself to danger on all occasions; that by accomplish
ing such enterprises he might acquire eternal fame and renown.
The poor gentleman already imagined himself at least crowned
Emperor of Trapisonda3 by the valour of his arm; and thus
wrapped up in these agreeable delusions, and hurried on by the
strange pleasure he took in them, he hastened to put in execution
what he so much desired.
And the first thing he did was, to scour up a suit of armour,
which had been his great-great-grandfather's, and, being mouldy
and rust-eaten, had lain by, many long years, forgotten in a
corner. These he cleaned and furbished up the best he could; but he perceived they had one grand defect, which was, that,
instead of a helmet, they had only a simple morion, or steel cap ;
but he dexterously supplied this want by contriving a sort of visor
of pasteboard, which, being fixed to the head-piece, gave it the
appearance of a complete helmet. It is true, indeed, that, to try
its strength, and whether it was proof against a cut, he drew his
sword, and giving it two strokes, undid in an instant what he had
been a week in doing. But not altogether approving of his having
broken it to pieces with so much ease, to secure himself from the
like danger for the future, he made it over again, fencing it with
small bars of iron within, in such a manner, that he rested satisfied
of its strength ; and without caring to make a fresh experiment
on it, he approved and looked upon it as a most excellent helmet.
The next thing he did was to visit his steed ; and though his
bones stuck out like the corners of a real, and he had more faults
than Gonela's1 horse, which tantum pellis et ossa fuit,2 he fancied
that neither Alexander's Bucephalus, nor [the] Cid's Babieca,
was equal to him. Four days was he considering what name to
give him; for (as he said within himself), it was not fit that a
horse so good, and appertaining to a knight so famous, should be
without some name of eminence; and therefore he studied to
accommodate him with one, which should express what he had
been before he belonged to a knight-errant, and what he actually
now was ; for it seemed highly reasonable, if his master changed
his state, he likewise should change his name, and acquire one
famous and high sounding, as became the new order, and the
new way of life he now professed. And so, after sundry names
devised and rejected, liked and disliked again, he concluded at
last to call him Rosinante3; a name) in his opinion, lofty and
sonorous, and at the same time expressive of what he had been
when he was but a common steed, and before he had acquired his
present superiority over all the steeds in the world.
Having given his horse a name so much to his satisfaction, he
resolved to give himself one. This consideration took him up
eight days more, and at length he determined to call himseli
Don Quixote1 ; from whence, as is said, the authors of this most
true history conclude, that his name was certainly Quixada, and
not Quesada, as others would have it. But recollecting that the
valorous Amadis, not content with the simple appellation of
Amadis, added thereto the name of his kingdom and native
country, in order to render it famous, and styled himself Amadis
de Gaul ; so he, like a good knight did in like manner call himself
Don Quixote de la Mancha; whereby, in his opinion, he set
forth in a very lively manner his lineage and country, and did
it due honour by taking his surname from thence.
And now, his armour being furbished up, the morion con
verted into a perfect helmet, and both his steed and himself
new-named, he persuaded himself that he wanted nothing but
to make choice of some lady to be in love with; for a knighterrant
without a mistress, was a tree without leaves or fruit,
and a body without a soul. If, said he, for the punishment of
my sins, or through my good fortune, I should chance to meet
some giant, as is usual with knights-errant, and should overthrow
him in fight, or cleave him asunder, or in fine vanquish and
force him to yield, will it not be proper to have some lady to
send him to as a present ; that, when he comes before her, he may
kneel to her sweet ladyship, and with humble and submissive
tone, accost her thus: 'Madam, I am the Giant Caraculiambro,
lord of the island [of] Malindrania, whom the never-enough-tobe-
praised Don Quixote de la Mancha has overcome in single
combat, and has commanded to present myself before your lady
ship, that your grandeur may dispose of me as you think proper'?
Oh! how did our good gentleman exult when he had made this
harangue, and especially when he had found out a person on
whom to confer the title of his mistress; which, it is believed,
happened thus. Near the place where he lived, there dwelt a very comely country lass, with whom he had formerly been in
love; though, as it is supposed, she never knew it, nor troubled
herself about it. Her name was Aldonza Lorenzo, and her he
pitched upon to be the lady of his thoughts; then, casting about
for a name, which should have some affinity with her own, and
yet incline towards that of a great lady or 
