On the first Monday of the month of April, 1625, the market town of Meung, in which the author of ROMANCE OF THE ROSE was born, appeared to be in as perfect a state of revolution as if the Huguenots had just made a second La Rochelle of it. Many citizens, seeing the women flying toward the High Street, leaving their children crying at the open doors, hastened to don the cuirass, and supporting their somewhat uncertain courage with a musket or a partisan, directed their steps toward the hostelry of the Jolly Miller, before which was gathered, increasing every minute, a compact group, vociferous and full of curiosity.
In those times panics were common, and few days passed without some city or other registering in its archives an event of this kind. There were nobles, who made war against each other; there was the king, who made war against the cardinal; there was Spain, which made war against the king. Then, in addition to these concealed or public, secret or open wars, there were robbers, mendicants, Huguenots, wolves, and scoundrels, who made war upon everybody. The citizens always took up arms readily against thieves, wolves or scoundrels, often against nobles or Huguenots, sometimes against the king, but never against cardinal or Spain. It resulted, then, from this habit that on the said first Monday of April, 1625, the citizens, on hearing the clamor, and seeing neither the red-and-yellow standard nor the livery of the Duc de Richelieu, rushed toward the hostel of the Jolly Miller. When arrived there, the cause of the hubbub was apparent to all.
A young man—we can sketch his portrait at a dash. Imagine to yourself a Don Quixote of eighteen; a Don Quixote without his corselet, without his coat of mail, without his cuisses; a Don Quixote clothed in a woolen doublet, the blue color of which had faded into a nameless shade between lees of wine and a heavenly azure; face long and brown; high cheek bones, a sign of sagacity; the maxillary muscles enormously developed, an infallible sign by which a Gascon may always be detected, even without his cap—and our young man wore a cap set off with a sort of feather; the eye open and intelligent; the nose hooked, but finely chiseled. Too big for a youth, too small for a grown man, an experienced eye might have taken him for a farmer’s son upon a journey had it not been for the long sword which, dangling from a leather baldric, hit against the calves of its owner as he walked, and against the rough side of his steed when he was on horseback.
For our young man had a steed which was the observed of all observers. It was a Bearn pony, from twelve to fourteen years old, yellow in his hide, without a hair in his tail, but not without windgalls on his legs, which, though going with his head lower than his knees, rendering a martingale quite unnecessary, contrived nevertheless to perform his eight leagues a day. Unfortunately, the qualities of this horse were so well concealed under his strange-colored hide and his unaccountable gait, that at a time when everybody was a connoisseur in horseflesh, the appearance of the aforesaid pony at Meung—which place he had entered about a quarter of an hour before, by the gate of Beaugency—produced an unfavorable feeling, which extended to his rider.
And this feeling had been more painfully perceived by young d’Artagnan—for so was the Don Quixote of this second Rosinante named—from his not being able to conceal from himself the ridiculous appearance that such a steed gave him, good horseman as he was. He had sighed deeply, therefore, when accepting the gift of the pony from M. d’Artagnan the elder. He was not ignorant that such a beast was worth at least twenty livres; and the words which had accompanied the present were above all price.
‘My son,’ said the old Gascon gentleman, in that pure Bearn PATOIS of which Henry IV could never rid himself, ‘this horse was born in the house of your father about thirteen years ago, and has remained in it ever since, which ought to make you love it. Never sell it; allow it to die tranquilly and honorably of old age, and if you make a campaign with it, take as much care of it as you would of an old servant. At court, provided you have ever the honor to go there,’ continued M. d’Artagnan the elder, ‘—an honor to which, remember, your ancient nobility gives you the right—sustain worthily your name of gentleman, which has been worthily borne by your ancestors for five hundred years, both for your own sake and the sake of those who belong to you. By the latter I mean your relatives and friends. Endure nothing from anyone except Monsieur the Cardinal and the king. It is by his courage, please observe, by his courage alone, that a gentleman can make his way nowadays. Whoever hesitates for a second perhaps allows the bait to escape which during that exact second fortune held out to him. You are young. You ought to be brave for two reasons: the first is that you are a Gascon, and the second is that you are my son. Never fear quarrels, but seek adventures. I have taught you how to handle a sword; you have thews of iron, a wrist of steel. Fight on all occasions. Fight the more for duels being forbidden, since consequently there is twice as much courage in fighting. I have nothing to give you, my son, but fifteen crowns, my horse, and the counsels you have just heard. Your mother will add to them a recipe for a certain balsam, which she had from a Bohemian and which has the miraculous virtue of curing all wounds that do not reach the heart. Take advantage of all, and live happily and long. I have but one word to add, and that is to propose an example to you— not mine, for I myself have never appeared at court, and have only taken part in religious wars as a volunteer; I speak of Monsieur de Treville, who was formerly my neighbor, and who had the honor to be, as a child, the play-fellow of our king, Louis XIII, whom God preserve! Sometimes their play degenerated into battles, and in these battles the king was not always the stronger. The blows which he received increased greatly his esteem and friendship for Monsieur de Treville. Afterward, Monsieur de Treville fought with others: in his first journey to Paris, five times; from the death of the late king till the young one came of age, without reckoning wars and sieges, seven times; and from that date up to the present day, a hundred times, perhaps! So that in spite of edicts, ordinances, and decrees, there he is, captain of the Musketeers; that is to say, chief of a legion of Caesars, whom the king holds in great esteem and whom the cardinal dreads—he who dreads nothing, as it is said. Still further, Monsieur de Treville gains ten thousand crowns a year; he is therefore a great noble. He began as you begin. Go to him with this letter, and make him your model in order that you may do as he has done.’
Upon which M. d’Artagnan the elder girded his own sword round his son, kissed him tenderly on both cheeks, and gave him his benediction.
On leaving the paternal chamber, the young man found his mother, who was waiting for him with the famous recipe of which the counsels we have just repeated would necessitate frequent employment. The adieux were on this side longer and more tender than they had been on the other—not that M. d’Artagnan did not love his son, who was his only offspring, but M. d’Artagnan was a man, and he would have considered it unworthy of a man to give way to his feelings; whereas Mme. d’Artagnan was a woman, and still more, a mother. She wept abundantly; and—let us speak it to the praise of M. d’Artagnan the younger—notwithstanding the efforts he made to remain firm, as a future Musketeer ought, nature prevailed, and he shed many tears, of which he succeeded with great difficulty in concealing the half.
The same day the young man set forward on his journey, furnished with the three paternal gifts, which consisted, as we have said, of fifteen crowns, the horse, and the letter for M. de Treville— the counsels being thrown into the bargain.
With such a VADE MECUM d’Artagnan was morally and physically an exact copy of the hero of Cervantes, to whom we so happily compared him when our duty of an historian placed us under the necessity of sketching his portrait. Don Quixote took windmills for giants, and sheep for armies; d’Artagnan took every smile for an insult, and every look as a provocation—whence it resulted that from Tarbes to Meung his fist was constantly doubled, or his hand on the hilt of his sword; and yet the fist did not descend upon any jaw, nor did the sword issue from its scabbard. It was not that the sight of the wretched pony did not excite numerous smiles on the countenances of passers-by; but as against the side of this pony rattled a sword of respectable length, and as over this sword gleamed an eye rather ferocious than haughty, these passers-by repressed their hilarity, or if hilarity prevailed over prudence, they endeavored to laugh only on one side, like the masks of the ancients. D’Artagnan, then, remained majestic and intact in his susceptibility, till he came to this unlucky city of Meung.
But there, as he was alighting from his horse at the gate of the Jolly Miller, without anyone—host, waiter, or hostler—coming to hold his stirrup or take his horse, d’Artagnan spied, though an open window on the ground floor, a gentleman, well-made and of good carriage, although of rather a stern countenance, talking with two persons who appeared to listen to him with respect. d’Artagnan fancied quite naturally, according to his custom, that he must be the object of their conversation, and listened. This time d’Artagnan was only in part mistaken; he himself was not in question, but his horse was. The gentleman appeared to be enumerating all his qualities to his auditors; and, as I have said, the auditors seeming to have great deference for the narrator, they every moment burst into fits of laughter. Now, as a half-smile was sufficient to awaken the irascibility of the young man, the effect produced upon him by this vociferous mirth may be easily imagined.
Nevertheless, d’Artagnan was desirous of examining the appearance of this impertinent personage who ridiculed him. He fixed his haughty eye upon the stranger, and perceived a man of from forty to forty-five years of age, with black and piercing eyes, pale complexion, a strongly marked nose, and a black and well-shaped mustache. He was dressed in a doublet and hose of a violet color, with aiguillettes of the same color, without any other ornaments than the customary slashes, through which the shirt appeared. This doublet and hose, though new, were creased, like traveling clothes for a long time packed in a portmanteau. d’Artagnan made all these remarks with the rapidity of a most minute observer, and doubtless from an instinctive feeling that this stranger was destined to have a great influence over his future life.
Now, as at the moment in which d’Artagnan fixed his eyes upon the gentleman in the violet doublet, the gentleman made one of his most knowing and profound remarks respecting the Bearnese pony, his two auditors laughed even louder than before, and he himself, though contrary to his custom, allowed a pale smile (if I may allowed to use

Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.
There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.
Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are the green fields gone? What do they here?
But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand—miles of them—leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues—north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?
Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest reveries—stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region. Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest, quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd’s head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd’s eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies—what is the one charm wanting?—Water—there is not a drop of water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea? Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely all this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.
Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers get sea-sick—grow quarrelsome—don’t sleep of nights—do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing;—no, I never go as a passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all honourable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not. And as for going as cook,—though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board—yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls;—though once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.
No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head. True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one’s sense of honour, particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off in time.
What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and respect fully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain’t a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may order me about—however they may thump and punch me about, I have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is one way or other served in much the same way—either in a physical or metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed round, and all hands should rub each other’s shoulder-blades, and be content.
Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But BEING PAID,—what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!
Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it. But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way—he can better answer than any one else. And, doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances. I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this:
‘GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES. ‘WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. ‘BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN.’
Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces—though I cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into

IN a village of La Mancha, the name of which I purposely
omit, there lived not long ago, one of those gentlemen, who
usually keep a lance upon a rack, an old target, a lean horse,
and a greyhound for coursing. A dish of boiled meat, con
sisting of somewhat more beef than mutton, the fragments
served up cold on most nights, an omelet1 on Saturdays, lentils
on Fridays, and a small pigeon by way of addition on Sundays,
consumed three-fourths of his income. The rest was laid out
in a surtout of fine black cloth, a pair of velvet breeches for
holidays, with slippers of the same; and on week-days he prided
himself in the very best of his own homespun cloth. His fam
ily consisted of a housekeeper somewhat above forty, a niece
not quite twenty, and a lad for the field and the market, who
both saddled the horse and handled the pruning hook. The
age of our gentleman bordered upon fifty years. He was of a
robust constitution, spare-bodied, of a meagre visage; a very
early riser, and a keen sportsman. It is said his surname was
Quixada, or Quesada (for in this there is some difference among
the authors who have written upon this subject), though by
probable conjectures it may be gathered that he was called
Quixana. But this is of little importance to our story; let it
suffice that in relating we do not swerve a jot from the truth.
You must know then, that this gentleman aforesaid, at times
when he was idle, which was most part of the year, gave him
self up to the reading of books of chivalry, with so much attach
ment and relish, that he almost forgot all the sports of the
field, and even the management of his domestic affairs; and his
curiosity and extravagant fondness herein arrived to that pitch,
that he sold many acres of arable land to purchase books of
knight-errantry, and carried home all he could lay hands on
of that kind. But, among them all, none pleased him so much
as those composed by the famous Feliciano de Silva: for the
glaringness of his prose, and the intricacy of his style, seemed
to him so many pearls; and especially when he came to peruse
those love-speeches and challenges, wherein in several places he
found written: 'The reason of the unreasonable treatment of
my reason enfeebles my reason in such wise, that with reason I
complain of your beauty':1 and also when he read—'The high
heavens that with your divinity divinely fortify you with the
stars, making you meritorious of the merit merited by your
greatness'.2 With this kind of language the poor gentleman lost
his wits, and distracted himself to comprehend and unravel their
meaning; which was more than Aristotle himself could do,
were he to rise again from the dead for that purpose alone.
He had some doubt as to the dreadful wounds which Don
Belianis gave and received; for he imagined, that notwithstanding 
the most expert surgeons had cured him, his face and whole
body must still be full of seams and scars. Nevertheless he.
commended in his author the concluding his book with a promise
of that unfinishable adventure: and he often had it in his
thoughts to take pen in hand, and finish it himself, precisely as
it is there promised: which he had certainly performed, and
successfully too, if other greater and continual cogitations had
not diverted him.
He had frequent disputes with the priest of his village (who
was a learned person, and had taken his degrees in Siguenza1)
which of the two was the better knight, Palmerin of England,
or Amadis de Gaul. But Master Nicholas, barber-surgeon of
the same town, affirmed, that none ever came up to the Knight
of the Sun, and that if any one could be compared to him, it
was Don Galaor, brother of Amadis de Gaul ; for he was of a
disposition fit for everything, no finical gentleman, nor such
a whimperer as his brother; and as to courage, he was by no
means inferior to him. In short, he so bewildered himself in
this kind of study, that he passed the nights in reading from
sunset to sunrise, and the days from sunrise to sunset: and
thus, through little sleep and much reading, his brain was dried
up in such a manner, that he came at last to lose his wits. His
imagination was full of all that he read in his books, to wit,
enchantments, battles, single combats, challenges, wounds, court
ships, amours, tempests, and impossible absurdities. And so
firmly was he persuaded that the whole system of chimeras he
read of was true, that he thought no history in the world was
more to be depended upon. The Cid Ruy Diaz, he was wont
to say, was a very good knight, but not comparable to the
Knight of the Burning Sword, who with a single back-stroke
cleft asunder two fierce and monstrous giants. He was better
pleased with Bernardo del Carpio for putting Orlando the
Enchanted to death in Roncesvalles, by means of the same
stratagem which Hercules used, when he suffocated Anteus,
son of the Earth, by squeezing him between his arms.1 He spoke
mighty well of the giant Morgante; for, though he was of that
monstrous brood who are always proud and insolent, he alone
was affable and well-bred : but, above all, he was charmed with
Reynaldos de Montalvan, especially when he saw him sallying
out of his castle and plundering all he met; and when abroad he
seized that image of Mahomet, which was all of massive gold,
as his history records. He would have given his housekeeper,
and niece to boot, for a fair opportunity of handsomely kicking
the traitor Galalon-.
In fine, having quite lost his wits, he fell into one of the
strangest conceits that ever entered the head of any madman;
which was, that he thought it expedient and necessary, as
well for the advancement of his own reputation, as for the
public good, that he should commence knight-errant, and wander
through the world, with his horse and arms, in quest of adven
tures, and to put in practice whatever he had read to have been
practised by knights-errant; redressing all kind of grievances, and
exposing himself to danger on all occasions; that by accomplish
ing such enterprises he might acquire eternal fame and renown.
The poor gentleman already imagined himself at least crowned
Emperor of Trapisonda3 by the valour of his arm; and thus
wrapped up in these agreeable delusions, and hurried on by the
strange pleasure he took in them, he hastened to put in execution
what he so much desired.
And the first thing he did was, to scour up a suit of armour,
which had been his great-great-grandfather's, and, being mouldy
and rust-eaten, had lain by, many long years, forgotten in a
corner. These he cleaned and furbished up the best he could; but he perceived they had one grand defect, which was, that,
instead of a helmet, they had only a simple morion, or steel cap ;
but he dexterously supplied this want by contriving a sort of visor
of pasteboard, which, being fixed to the head-piece, gave it the
appearance of a complete helmet. It is true, indeed, that, to try
its strength, and whether it was proof against a cut, he drew his
sword, and giving it two strokes, undid in an instant what he had
been a week in doing. But not altogether approving of his having
broken it to pieces with so much ease, to secure himself from the
like danger for the future, he made it over again, fencing it with
small bars of iron within, in such a manner, that he rested satisfied
of its strength ; and without caring to make a fresh experiment
on it, he approved and looked upon it as a most excellent helmet.
The next thing he did was to visit his steed ; and though his
bones stuck out like the corners of a real, and he had more faults
than Gonela's1 horse, which tantum pellis et ossa fuit,2 he fancied
that neither Alexander's Bucephalus, nor [the] Cid's Babieca,
was equal to him. Four days was he considering what name to
give him; for (as he said within himself), it was not fit that a
horse so good, and appertaining to a knight so famous, should be
without some name of eminence; and therefore he studied to
accommodate him with one, which should express what he had
been before he belonged to a knight-errant, and what he actually
now was ; for it seemed highly reasonable, if his master changed
his state, he likewise should change his name, and acquire one
famous and high sounding, as became the new order, and the
new way of life he now professed. And so, after sundry names
devised and rejected, liked and disliked again, he concluded at
last to call him Rosinante3; a name) in his opinion, lofty and
sonorous, and at the same time expressive of what he had been
when he was but a common steed, and before he had acquired his
present superiority over all the steeds in the world.
Having given his horse a name so much to his satisfaction, he
resolved to give himself one. This consideration took him up
eight days more, and at length he determined to call himseli
Don Quixote1 ; from whence, as is said, the authors of this most
true history conclude, that his name was certainly Quixada, and
not Quesada, as others would have it. But recollecting that the
valorous Amadis, not content with the simple appellation of
Amadis, added thereto the name of his kingdom and native
country, in order to render it famous, and styled himself Amadis
de Gaul ; so he, like a good knight did in like manner call himself
Don Quixote de la Mancha; whereby, in his opinion, he set
forth in a very lively manner his lineage and country, and did
it due honour by taking his surname from thence.
And now, his armour being furbished up, the morion con
verted into a perfect helmet, and both his steed and himself
new-named, he persuaded himself that he wanted nothing but
to make choice of some lady to be in love with; for a knighterrant
without a mistress, was a tree without leaves or fruit,
and a body without a soul. If, said he, for the punishment of
my sins, or through my good fortune, I should chance to meet
some giant, as is usual with knights-errant, and should overthrow
him in fight, or cleave him asunder, or in fine vanquish and
force him to yield, will it not be proper to have some lady to
send him to as a present ; that, when he comes before her, he may
kneel to her sweet ladyship, and with humble and submissive
tone, accost her thus: 'Madam, I am the Giant Caraculiambro,
lord of the island [of] Malindrania, whom the never-enough-tobe-
praised Don Quixote de la Mancha has overcome in single
combat, and has commanded to present myself before your lady
ship, that your grandeur may dispose of me as you think proper'?
Oh! how did our good gentleman exult when he had made this
harangue, and especially when he had found out a person on
whom to confer the title of his mistress; which, it is believed,
happened thus. Near the place where he lived, there dwelt a very comely country lass, with whom he had formerly been in
love; though, as it is supposed, she never knew it, nor troubled
herself about it. Her name was Aldonza Lorenzo, and her he
pitched upon to be the lady of his thoughts; then, casting about
for a name, which should have some affinity with her own, and
yet incline towards that of a great lady or 
